UNTIL THE
NOVEMBER 14TH 2024 MEETING
OF THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION VICE CHAIR
CATHERINE FORTNER THIS TIME IS
SEVEN O'CLOCK PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR BY
TELEPHONE DURING THE PUBLIC
COMMENT AGENDA ITEM OR DURING
PUBLIC HEARINGS WE WILL FIRST
CALL ON INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO
ADDRESS THE BOARD, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENTS REMOTELY PRESS STANA
IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE
THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IF YOU
ARE AN APPLICANT VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING ID NINE
SIX FIVE THREE SIX SIX NINE
NINE SEVEN SIX TWO FOUR PUBLIC
HEARINGS WE WILL FIRST HEAR
FROM PLANNING SERVICES STAFF
THEN THE APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL HAVE UP TO
FIVE MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE
THEIR PRESENTATION NEXT
COMMISSIONERS MIGHT QUESTION
THE APPLICANT THEN CITY STAFF
WILL SELECT TELEPHONE CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND BY
STATING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF THE CALLERS PHONE NUMBER YOU
WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS.
THE COMMISSIONERS WILL THEN
DISCUSS THE APPLICATION AND
MAKE A MOTION A MAJORITY
OF COMMISSIONERS PRESENT WILL
BE REQUIRED FOR CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS TO BE
GRANTED.
>> MISS THATCHER WILL YOU
PLEASE CALL THE ROLL CALL MR.
CALDERON YOUR COMMISSIONER
FORTNER HERE COMMISSIONER ROSS
PRESIDENT.
MR. KAPLAN COMMISSIONER SMITH.
I'M PRESIDENT COMMISSIONER
ROCHLIN.
>> YOU HAVE A QUORUM MOVING TO
ITEM C ON THE AGENDA APPROVAL
OF AGENDA.
>> ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS OR CHANGES TO BE MADE
TO TONIGHT'S AGENDA HEARING AND
SEEING NO AGENDA?
>> OBJECTION.
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED AS
PRESENTED PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANT TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE THE RACE HAND
FEATURE REVIEWING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TWO FOUR SEVEN AND
INTERMEETING ID NINE SIX FIVE
THREE SIX SIX NINE NINE SEVEN
SIX TWO FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A PUBLIC
COMMENT ANY REMOTE OR OK WE
WILL GO ON TO ITEM IX
UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
I DON'T BELIEVE THERE IS ANY
UNFINISHED BUSINESS SO WE WILL
MOVE TO OUR PUBLIC HEARINGS.
>> MR. THATCHER, PLEASE KEEP
THE STAFF REPORT CERTAIN
DID
NOT MEAN TO DO THAT
HARICOTS
THIS APPLICATION IS FOR FIVE
FIFTY THREE S FIRST STREET.
IT'S A LARGE CLAPBOARDS
VERNACULAR STYLE HOUSE THAT
FEATURES STUCCOED HAVE
TIMBERING IN BOTH THE MAIN
FRONT GABAL AND THE SMALLER
GABAL ABOVE THE PORCH STEPS.
>> OTHER DETAILS INCLUDE WIDE
PLAIN BRIDGEPORT'S ON THE
GABLE'S EXPOSED RAFTER ENDS
DORIC STYLE PORCH COLUMNS WITH
A FRONT PORCH THAT EXTENDS
ACROSS THE ENTIRE FACADE.
>> THERE ARE TWO FRONT DOORS
THE ORIGINAL WITH A LARGE
SINGLE PANE THAT'S THE ONE THAT
WILL BE ON THE RIGHT AND A
LATER ONE TO THE LEFT WITH
TWELVE PANES.
THE HOUSE IS OCCUPIED IN 1910
BY THEODORE TROCHU, THE
PRINCIPAL OF BETHEL GERMAN
EVANGELICAL SCHOOL AND HIS WIFE
LOUISE THAT REMAINED IN THAT
FAMILY UNTIL NINETEEN THIRTY
SIX IN NINETEEN NINETY ONE.
THEN OWNERS RECEIVED HGC
APPROVAL TO REPLACE THE DOOR ON
THE LEFT THEY WOULD DOUBLE HUNG
WINDOW AND WERE ABLE AT THAT
TIME TO PROVIDE AMPLE EVIDENCE
OF THIS WINDOW WOULD BE A
RESTORATION THAT APPLICATION IS
ATTACHED TO THE STAFF REPORT IN
NINETEEN NINETY NINE AN
APPLICATION WAS APPROVED TO
REPLACE THE SECOND DOOR WITH
EITHER A WINDOW OR INFILL AND
SIDING AND NONE OF THAT WORK
WAS EVER UNDERTAKEN SO WE STILL
DO FRONT DOORS.
THE HOUSE IS ON THE EAST SIDE
OF S FIRST STREET IN WEST
JEFFERSON AND WEST MADISON AND
IT IS IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING HGC
APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT A FIFTY
SQUARE FOOT REAR ADDITION WITH
AN EXPANDED BALCONY ON TOP
REPLACE THE DOOR TO THE BALCONY
AND FILL ONE OF TWO FRONT DOORS
AND REPLACE THE REMAINING DOOR
REMOVE AND EXHAUST FAN IN THE
ATTIC IN THE REAR GABLE AND
REPLACE IT WITH A CIRCULAR
WINDOW INFILL A SECOND FLOOR
REAR WINDOW AND INSTALL A NEW
WINDOW NEARBY AND FILL A
BASEMENT WINDOW ONTO THE FRONT
PORCH, INSTALL A BACKYARD PATIO
AND CONSTRUCT TWO NEW ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES ONE FOR A GARAGE AND
ONE FOR AN ACCESSORY DWELLING
UNIT.
SO WE HAVE A LOT OF LITTLE
CHANGES AND A COUPLE OF LARGER
ONES.
SO WALKING AROUND THE HOUSE
THIS IS THE FRONT THIS IS
LOOKING SO THIS TREE FOR
PERSPECTIVE IS THIS TREE IN THE
BACKYARD.
THIS IS THE SOUTH SIDE OF THE
SITE.
THESE HOUSES ARE FACING
MADISONS AND MOSELY STREET,
MADISON MOSTLY MADISON.
>> IT'S MADISON.
YEAH.
HERE'S THE BACK OF THE HOUSE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE THERE'S
A THERE'S A ROOM ON THE BACK.
IT'S A SINGLE STOREY IT'S JUST
A LITTLE BIT BIGGER THAN A THAN
WHAT I WOULD CALL A BUMP BUT IT
USED TO BE A ROOM THERE'S A
PIECE OF SIDING TRIM HERE THAT
PROBABLY DEMARCATES THE
PREVIOUS END OF THIS ROOM AND
THIS WAS A ONE STOREY ROOM AND
THIS WAS A PORCH, A
COVERED PORCH SOME POINT THIS
HALF OF THIS ROOM GOT ENCLOSED
TO MAKE ONE LARGER ROOM AND
PROBABLY AT THAT SAME TIME I
SUSPECT THAT THERE WOULD HAVE
BEEN A WINDOW UP HERE THAT WAS
CHANGED INTO A DOOR BECAUSE IT
WOULDN'T HAVE BEEN USUAL
TYPICAL TO HAVE A DOOR OPENING
UP ONTO THE THE ROOF OF OF A
OF A PORCH OF A COVERED PORCH.
IT'S POSSIBLE BUT IT'S NOT
LIKELY AND LET'S SEE SO NOW
WE'VE GOT ONE ROOM IN THE BACK.
YOU CAN SEE THERE'S AN EXISTING
PATIO IN THE BACK THAT WOULD BE
REPLACED.
THESE ARE SOME PHOTOS LOOKING
TOWARD THE BACK OF THE LOT.
PART OF THE PROPOSAL IS TO PUT
A NEW GARAGE OVER HERE
SOMEWHERE AND BEHIND IT TO PUT
AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.
BOTH ARE THERE VERY NEARLY THE
SAME SIZE ONE STORY SO THEY'LL
BE WHEN YOU'RE LOOKING DOWN THE
DRIVEWAY THEY'LL BE IN TANDEM.
SO YOU'LL REALLY ONLY SEE THE
GARAGE THAT'S IN THE FRONT.
>> THIS IS ANOTHER VIEW
OF WHERE THIS IS THE BACK
CORNER WHERE THE GARAGE WOULD
GO.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THE NEIGHBORS
HAVE A LARGE BARN GARAGE SLASH
LIVING SPACE IN THE STRUCTURE
NEXT DOOR AND THIS IS THE
NEIGHBOR'S NEW FENCE, ANOTHER
VIEW OF THE BACKYARD.
IT'S ONE OF THOSE GREAT
ORIGINAL CITY LOTS THAT ARE
WIDE AND DEEP AND VERY SPACIOUS
IN THE BACK THE IN THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE.
>> THIS VENT UP HERE IS
PROPOSED TO BE REPLACED WITH A
CIRCULAR WINDOW UM WITH THE
APPLICANTS AND ARCHITECTS DO
NOT KNOW I'M SURE THE OWNERS
AND ARCHITECTS DO NOT KNOW WHAT
THIS MATERIAL IS.
IT'S NOT STANDARD STUCCO BUT
IT'S NOT PROPOSED TO BE CHANGED
AT ALL.
I DO REALLY SUSPECT THAT THIS
HALF TIMBERING WAS EITHER ADDED
LATER OR I DON'T KNOW, MAYBE
IT'S JUST A SUPER VERNACULAR
HOUSE BUT IT JUST IT LOOKS LIKE
A LATER ADD ON THAN TYPICAL
HALF TIMBERING.
BUT AGAIN THERE ARE A LOT
OF THINGS GOING ON HERE AND WE
DON'T KNOW WHEN SO WE CAN SORT
ASSUME THAT IT'S BEEN THERE
SINCE THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE SINCE WE HAVE
NO OTHER EVIDENCE PART
APPLICATION IS TO REPLACE THIS
BATHROOM WINDOW WITH A
DIFFERENT SLIGHTLY LARGER
WINDOW.
I'LL SHOW YOU THAT IN A MINUTE.
THIS THIS ROOM ON THE BACK
WOULD BE BUMPED OUT AND BY NOT
VERY MUCH I'LL SHOW YOU THAT IN
A MINUTE.
IT'S ANOTHER VIEW FROM THE
OTHER END THIS WOULD HAVE BEEN
THE PORCH.
SO THIS WINDOW IS NOT ORIGINAL
NOR ANY OF THE SIDING AND THAT
WORK WAS DONE THAT WORK WAS
DONE OUTSIDE THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE PER SANDBORN
MAPS NOTE THIS DOOR ON THE SIDE
BY THE DRIVEWAY.
GET TO THAT AND THIS IS THE
VIEW FROM THE DRIVEWAY LOOKING
TOWARD THE BACKYARD WHERE THE
GARAGE WILL GO.
OK, HERE ARE THE TWO FRONT
DOORS THE ONE ON THE RIGHT IS
THE ORIGINAL OPENING THE ONE ON
THE LEFT YOU CAN SEE IT'S A
LITTLE BIT NARROWER AND IF YOU
LOOK REALLY CLOSELY YOU CAN SEE
UP HERE WHERE THERE USED TO BE
A WINDOW THAT THAT THAT WAS
SORT OF CUT INTO THIS WIDE
BOARD TRIM UP HERE THAT WAS
INVOLVED WHEN THEY TOOK THE
WINDOW OUT PUT THE SECOND DOOR
IN THE HOUSE WAS A DUPLEX FOR A
WHILE AND IT'S NO LONGER A
DUPLEX AND THAT'S WHY
EVERYONE'S BEEN TALKING
ABOUT
REMOVING ONE OF THESE DOORS AND
THIS IS SINCE THIS IS THE NON
ORIGINAL OPENING THAT IS THE
ONE THAT WOULD BE APPROPRIATE
TO REMOVE SO HERE'S THE SITE
PLAN OF THINGS GOING ON.
LET'S SEE THIS IS THIS IS THAT
ON THE BACK WITH THE DOOR
LEADING OUT ONTO ITS ROOF AND
IT IS PROPOSED TO BE EXPANDED
STRAIGHT BACK JUST A LITTLE
BIT.
HERE'S THE NEW PROPOSED SINGLE
CAR GARAGE.
HERE'S THE NEW PROPOSED
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT AGAIN
WE DON'T CARE WHAT THEY'RE USED
FOR.
WE'RE REALLY JUST LOOKING FOR
STRUCTURAL COMPATIBLE WITH THE
NEIGHBORS IN THE LOT AND
EVERYTHING ELSE.
THIS IS A GOOD ILLUSTRATION TO
SHOW THAT THERE'S THERE'S A BIG
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE HERE THAT
THAT BARN LIVING SPACE AND
THERE ARE TWO MORE GARAGES HERE
SO AND THERE'S NO ONE HERE.
SO THERE'S NOT GOING TO BE A
VIEW OF THIS FROM OTHER
PEOPLE'S HOUSES UNTIL YOU GET
ALL THE WAY TO THESE BACKYARDS
ON MADISON.
THESE THESE THESE FOLKS SHOULD
HAVE IT SHOULD HAVE VERY LITTLE
IMPACT ON THEIR ENJOYMENT
OF THEIR YARDS.
SO HERE'S THE NINETEEN THIRTY
NINE SANDBORN MAP.
IT SHOWS THAT ONE STOREY
EDITION ON THE BACK AND THIS
DASH PART IS THAT COVERED PORCH
THAT KIND OF CLOSED AT SOME
POINT.
>> OK EXISTING EXISTING GROUND
FLOOR FIRST FLOOR THIS IS A
MATTER OF ON THE BACK WITH WITH
A LITTLE HALF BATH THE PROPOSAL
IS TO SEE HERE'S ONE OF THE OLD
WALL LETTERS WHERE THE CURRENT
WALL IS BUMP IT OUT JUST LIKE
LIKE LIKE THREE FEET AND THE
WHOLE WIDTH OF IT AND REWORK
THE POWDER ROOM, MAKE THIS
LAUNDRY AND A DIFFERENT STYLE
OF ENTRY MUDROOM AND THEN
THEY'RE ALSO GOING TO BE DOING
SOME WORK ON THE INTERIOR
THAT'S REALLY PART OF THIS
APPLICATION EXISTING SECOND
FLOOR.
YOU CAN SEE THIS DECK ON THE
BACK.
IT'S PRETTY SHALLOW.
IT'S LESS THAN FIVE FEET DEEP
AND HERE NOW IT'S A SLIGHTLY
DEEPER, MORE MORE USABLE EIGHT
BY SIXTEEN FOR ROOF EXISTING
THIRD FLOOR PLAN.
THIS MUST BE THE ATTIC.
THERE'S THAT WINDOW IN THE BACK
GABLE AND THAT'S JUST THIS IS
JUST INTERNAL REARRANGEMENT
OF THINGS THAT ARE ALREADY
THERE
EXISTING BASEMENT FLOOR
PLAN AND BASEMENT SHOWING THAT
WALL MOVE BACK A LITTLE.
OK, HERE'S THE BACK OF THE
HOUSE EXISTING HERE IS THE WORK
THAT'S PROPOSED UP TOP.
WE'VE GOT A ROUND WINDOW WITH
THAT ATTIC VENT IS RIGHT NOW
IT'S A MECHANICAL VENT FAN.
>> I'M NOT CRAZY ABOUT ADDING
ROUND WINDOWS BECAUSE THEY'RE
TYPICALLY AN ITALIANATE FEATURE
OF HOUSES THAT ARE OLDER THAN
THIS HOUSE.
BUT THIS IS NOT A TYPICAL PLACE
TO PUT ONE OF THOSE ITALIANATE
WINDOWS.
IT WOULD BE RIGHT HERE.
IT WOULD BE RIGHT CENTERED IN
THE MIDDLE OF THE GABLE IN THE
ATTIC.
AND I THINK THAT BY PUTTING
ABOVE THE EXISTING ATTIC WINDOW
THAT THAT'S I I THINK IT WILL
APPEAR TO BE A NON ORIGINAL
WINDOW AND IT WILL BE A NON
ORIGINAL WINDOW.
I DON'T THINK IT'LL CONFUSE THE
HISTORIC RECORD TO HAVE IT THAT
HIGH UP IN THE GABLE IN A VERY
UNUSUAL SPOT.
YOU CAN SEE THAT HERE'S A
WINDOW THAT WOULD BE IN THE
BATHROOM THAT WOULD BE REMOVED
AND REPLACED WITH ONE OVER ONE
WINDOW.
>> THERE'S A NEW DOOR HERE
SINCE WE ASSUME THAT THE THE
DOOR THAT WAS THERE WAS
PROBABLY INSTALLED WHEN THEY
DID THE REMODEL OF THIS ROOM ON
THE BACK.
>> THAT WAS SOMETIME AFTER
NINETEEN FORTY FOUR.
>> WE'VE GOT A NEW BACK DOOR
GET TO THAT IN A SECOND ON THE
NEWLY EXPANDED REAR WING THESE
ARE THESE ARE EXISTING WINDOWS
.
NO OTHER WINDOW CHANGES FROM
THIS VIEW.
THESE THESE GUYS ARE NEW
BECAUSE THIS WAS BEING REBUILT
EXISTING NORTH ELEVATION SO
THIS DOOR WOULD JUST BE SIMPLY
FIXED IN PLACE AND PRESUMABLY
WALLED OVER FROM THE INSIDE.
UH,
SORRY.
I'M JUST MAKING SURE I DIDN'T
MISS ANYTHING.
THIS WINDOW THAT'S EXISTING ON
THE BACK WOULD BE SLID OVER.
THERE WAS A NICE PHOTOGRAPH
OF THAT ONE THAT I ALREADY
SHOWED.
YOU GOT A NEW RAIL AND A
GUARDRAIL ON A LITTLE DARK
LITTLE STOOP ON THE BACK WITH
SOME SOME LATTICE SKIRTING.
LOOKS LIKE THE TRIM IS
COMPOSITE BACK HERE
.
IT'S ALL THAT IS IN THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE.
SO I AM NOT CONCERNED ABOUT IT.
I KNOW THAT THE ARCHITECTS WENT
TO SOME PAINS TO INCLUDE
INFORMATION ON THE EXISTING
WINDOW TRIM SIZES IN THE PACKET
AND TO VARY THEM SO THAT
THEY'RE NOT EXACTLY MATCHING.
>> HERE'S THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE.
WE'VE GOT THE ORIGINAL DOOR
OPENING ON THE RIGHT.
THEY'RE PROPOSING TO REPLACE
THE CURRENT DOOR WHICH IS NOT
AN ORIGINAL DOOR WITH AN OVAL
SHAPED DOOR WHICH IS AN
APPROPRIATE STYLE FOR THE HOUSE
AND THERE IS A LETTER THAT WAS
INCLUDED IN PREVIOUS HGC
APPLICATION WHERE A PREVIOUS
OCCUPANT OF THE HOUSE TESTIFY
IN WRITING THAT THERE WAS A
OVAL WINDOW HERE IN THIS IN
THIS DOOR ORIGINALLY.
SO WE DON'T KNOW EXACTLY WHAT
THAT LOOKS LIKE BUT THE
PROPOSED DOOR THAT YOU'LL SEE
IN A SECOND IS FINE.
>> S ELEVATION SO SO THIS IS
THE ORIGINAL BACK CORNER OF OF
THIS WING OF THE HOUSE.
SO THEY HAVE INDENTED WE CAN DO
THIS BETTER IN PLAIN VIEW THIS
IT'S IT'S FAIRLY MINIMAL BUT
IT'S DISTINCT AND THEY'RE USING
IT TO PUT THEIR DOWNSPOUT DOWN
WHICH KIND OF CLEVER SO IT'LL
BE RECESSED BACK INTO THE WALL
THERE.
ALL RIGHT.
NOW WE'RE MOVING ON TO THE
GARAGE AND THE 80 YOU CAN SEE
THAT THIS IS THE END OF THE
DRIVEWAY RIGHT NOW.
IT STOPS SHORT OF HERE BUT
THERE'S THERE'S THERE'S NO
REASON IT CAN'T GO A LITTLE BIT
FURTHER.
THERE ARE NO BIG TREES IN THE
WAY BACK HERE GARAGE
ELEVATION'S THIS IS THE FRONT
THAT HAS A KOPAY ROLL UP
OVERHEAD DOOR PERSON DOOR ON
THE SOUTH ELEVATION WHICH LEADS
INTO THE BACKYARD AND THE OTHER
ELEVATIONS ARE HAVE NO OPENINGS
.
THIS IS THE AIDOO WHICH IS A
SIMILAR DESIGN.
WE'VE GOT A ROUND WINDOW UP
HERE DOORS THESE ARE CASEMENT
WINDOWS THAT ARE MADE TO LOOK
LIKE DOUBLE HUNG WINDOWS OR ONE
OVER ONE WINDOWS SO THAT THEY
CAN MEET EGRESS REQUIREMENTS
HAS A CUTE LITTLE AWNING AND A
COUPLE OF STRUCTURAL BRACKETS
TO HOLD IT UP.
THIS IS THE NORTH SIDE.
NOT A LITTLE BIT OF LIGHT IN
THERE AND THIS IS THE THIS IS
FACING THE GARAGE.
>> OK, JUST A FEW MORE PICTURES
THAT WERE IN THE APPLICATION
AND THIS IS FROM WAY BACK IN
THE CORNER OF THE YARD BACK
HERE IS WHERE THE GARAGE THE
EIGHTY WILL BE WITH THE GARAGE
IN FRONT OF IT.
HERE'S ANOTHER VIEW THERE'S A
PATIO PROPOSED ON THE SITE PLAN
THAT BASICALLY CONNECTS THE NEW
STUPE ON THE BACK OVER TO THE
DRIVEWAY AND THE AND THE GARAGE
CUSTOM WOOD FRONT DOOR WITH
BEVELED GLASS IN THAT OVAL
DESIGN.
>> THIS IS THE NEW REAR BALCONY
DOOR SINGLE LIGHT.
IT'S IT'S A MORE MODERN BUT
CERTAINLY COMPATIBLE STYLE.
THE MODERN DOOR ON THE BACK
OF THE ADDITION IT DOES HAVE A
PRAIRIE STYLE MOUNTAIN PATTERN
AND OBSCURED GLASS AGAIN IT'S
ON THE BACK.
I THINK THAT THAT'S FINE.
IT'S IT'S JUST A FRONT DOOR.
I DON'T THINK THAT THE STYLE
WOULD BE APPROPRIATE BUT I
THINK THAT IT'S PERFECTLY
APPROPRIATE HERE AND A NEW WOOD
GARAGE PERSON DOOR IS A SIMPLE
SIX PANEL AND THERE'S SOME
GARAGE DETAILS A DOOR ALSO
SIMPLE COMPATIBLE.
THERE'S THAT EXISTING DOOR
THAT'S GETTING REPLACED WITH A
SINGLE LIGHT TALL LIGHT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
GOING THROUGH THE STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES FROM THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS NO.
TWO SAYS THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF A PROPERTY SHALL BE RETAINED
AND PRESERVED THE REMOVAL
OF HISTORIC MATERIALS OR
ALTERATION OF FEATURES AND
SPACES THAT CHARACTERIZE A
PROPERTY SHALL BE AVOIDED.
NUMBER FIVE SAYS DISTINCTIVE
FEATURES FINISHES IN
CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES OR
EXAMPLES OF CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY SHALL
BE PRESERVED.
NUMBER SIX HAS DETERIORATED.
HISTORIC FEATURES WILL BE
REPAIRED RATHER THAN REPLACED
OR THE SEVERITY
OF DETERIORATION REQUIRES
REPLACEMENT OF A DISTINCTIVE
FEATURE.
THE NEW FEATURE WILL MATCH THE
OLD AND DESIGN COLOR TEXTURE
AND WHERE POSSIBLE MATERIALS
REPLACEMENT OF MISSING FEATURES
WILL BE SUBSTANTIATED
DOCUMENTARY AND PHYSICAL
EVIDENCE NO.9 SAYS NEW EDITIONS
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS ARE OF NEW
CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT DESTROY
HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MASSIVE SIZE, SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT, NO.10 SAYS NEW
EDITIONS AND ADJACENT OR
RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION WILL
BE UNDERTAKEN IN SUCH A MANNER
THAT IF REMOVED IN THE FUTURE
THE ESSENTIAL FORM AND
INTEGRITY OF THE HISTORIC
PROPERTY AND ITS ENVIRONMENT
WOULD BE UNIMPAIRED FROM THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITE
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO RETAIN THE
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
BUILDINGS, LANDSCAPE FEATURES
AND SPACE BUILDING SITE
RECOMMENDED IS DESIGNING NEW
ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC BUILDINGS
WHICH ARE COMPATABLE ORJI NEW
CONSTRUCTION WHICH ARE
COMPATIBLE
WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE SITE AND WHICH
PRESERVE THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
BUILDING AND THE LANDSCAPE NOT
RECOMMENDED AS INTRODUCING NEW
CONSTRUCTION WHICH IS VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE IN TERMS OF SIZE
SCALE DESIGN MATERIALS, COLOR
AND TEXTURE OR WHICH DESTROYS
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS ON THE
SITE.
I DON'T THINK THAT ANY OF THESE
ARE AT ISSUE AT ALL ON THIS
APPLICATION FOR ADDITIONS IT'S
RECOMMENDED TO CONSTRUCT A NEW
EDITIONS.
THERE'S THE LEAST POSSIBLE LOSS
OF HISTORIC MATERIALS SO THE
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES ARE
NOT OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR
DESTROYED IN DESIGNING NEW
ADDITIONS IN A MANNER THAT
MAKES CLEAR WHAT IS HISTORIC
AND WHAT IS NEW FROM THE
GUIDELINES FOR WINDOWS IT'S
RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN AND
INSTALL ADDITIONAL WINDOWS ON
RIR OR NON CHARACTER DEFINING
ELEVATIONS IF REQUIRED BY THE
NEW USE.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO REMOVE
OR RADICALLY CHANGE WINDOWS
WHICH ARE IMPORTANT TO DEFINE
THE CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING
THAT AS A RESULT THAT CHARACTER
IS DIMINISHED.
AND FROM THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS TO RESIDENTIAL
STRUCTURES, IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
PLACE NEW WALLS IN A DIFFERENT
PLAIN FROM THE HISTORIC
STRUCTURE IN A SUBORDINATE
POSITION TO THIS HISTORIC
FABRIC FOR DOORS IT'S
APPROPRIATE TO REPLACE A
MISSING ORIGINAL OR NOT
ORIGINAL OR THE DESIGN THAT
MATCHES ORIGINAL DOORS
REMAINING ON THE HOUSE OR THE
COMPATIBLE NEW DESIGN A
MATERIAL THAT FITS THE STYLE
AND PERIOD OF THE HOUSE AND THE
EXISTING OPENING FROM THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR LIGHTING
.
>> IT'S APPROPRIATE WHEN
INSTALLING A NEW LIGHT FIXTURE
WHERE THERE IS NO HISTORIC
LIGHT FIXTURE TO USE A FIXTURE
THAT IS INCONSPICUOUS OR
COMPLEMENTS THE STYLE OF THE
RESOURCE.
IT DIDN'T MAKE IT INTO THE
SLIDE SHOW BUT THERE ARE
DETAILS IN THE APPLICATION
ABOUT LIGHT FIXTURES AND FOR
RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES LIKE RODGERS AND ADA
USE IT'S APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN
THE HISTORIC RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN BUILDING'S LANDSCAPE
FEATURES AND OPEN SPACES AND TO
LOCATE SHEDS AND GARAGES IN THE
REAR YARD.
IT'S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO USE
EXTERIOR WALL AND ROOF
MATERIALS THAT ARE COMPATIBLE
WITH HISTORIC MATERIALS ON THE
MAIN STRUCTURE AND IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND TO USE A ROOF
SHAPE AND PITCH THAT REPLICATES
THE SHAPE AND PITCH OF THE ROOF
OF THE MAIN STRUCTURE AND TO
USE WINDOWS AND DOORS THAT ARE
COMPATIBLE IN PROPORTION AND
STYLE TO THE MAIN STRUCTURE AND
THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT IS ALL OF MY SLIDES.
A STAFF DOES RECOMMEND APPROVAL
OF ALL OF THE DIFFERENT
ELEMENTS OF THIS APPLICATION.
>> THANK YOU.
>> YOU COMMISSIONERS KAPLAN AND
SMITH WERE THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
>> WILL YOU PLEASE GIVE US YOUR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS?
>> SURE.
I MEAN ONE OF THE THINGS THAT'S
OBVIOUS WHEN YOU'RE LOOKING AT
SOME OF THESE THE SITE IN
PROPORTION TO THE SOME OF THE
OTHER LOTS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD,
IT'S IT'S SIGNIFICANTLY LARGER.
I THINK THERE'S THERE'S NO
SENSE THAT THE TWO ADDITIONAL
NEW CONSTRUCTION STRUCTURES IN
ANY WAY OVERLOAD OR CROWD THIS
YARD IT'S IT'S GOT A BUNCH ROOM
.
SO IT LOOKED LIKE WHAT THEY
WERE PROPOSING TO PUT IN THERE
WOULD FIT JUST FINE.
>> THE CHANGES TO THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE REMOVING THE DOOR
ACTUALLY I THINK IS A STEP IN
THE RIGHT DIRECTION.
>> IT'S NOT IT'S AN EASY TASK
AND I THINK THAT THE I THINK WE
BOTH FELT THAT, YOU KNOW, THAT
AUGMENTING THE REAR PORCH
DIDN'T DIDN'T REALLY DEGRADE
THAT VISUAL PRESENCE OF THE
HOUSE AT ALL.
>> YOU I THINK I WOULD ADD
STEVE MADE THE POINT THAT, YOU
KNOW, WHEN YOU'RE IN THAT
BACKYARD YOU'RE FACING PARKING
AREAS AND IN ONE CASE A
DUMPSTER AND YOU KNOW, IT'S
EVERYBODY'S BACK LOOKING THERE
SO ALL THEY SEE IS PEOPLE'S
SERVICE AREAS.
>> WE THINK THAT, YOU KNOW, I
MEAN WE WERE OUT THERE FOR A
LITTLE WHILE BUT THIS IS ONE
OF THOSE ONES THAT JUST WASN'T
LIKE THEY'VE DONE A VERY
THOUGHTFUL JOB OF PUTTING
TOGETHER A PACKAGE THAT
RESPECTS THE ORIGINAL HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE HOUSE.
LIKE I THINK WE WERE NOT THE
ONLY THING WE TALKED ABOUT WAS
A CIRCULAR WINDOW.
YOU KNOW, AND I THINK ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT WHEN PEOPLE
ASK ME AM I ASK FOR WHAT YOU
WANT AND YOU KNOW, I THINK
NEITHER NEITHER OF US FELT VERY
STRONGLY THAT THAT WAS A
DETRIMENT TO WHAT YOU SEE ON
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE OR WAS
CONCERNING UNDERSTANDING, YOU
KNOW, THE GOAL OF GETTING MORE
LIGHT ONTO THAT THIRD FLOOR.
IT SEEMED COMPLETELY REASONABLE
TO US AND YOU KNOW, WE JUST
THINK IT'S GOING TO BE A NICE
IMPROVEMENT TO A NICE HISTORIC
RESOURCE IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
THANK YOU.
WITH THE APPLICANT PLEASE COME
FORWARD, PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND YOU
HAVE FIVE MINUTES TO SPEAK IF
THERE'S ANYTHING YOU'D LIKE TO
ADD TO WHAT YOU'VE HEARD.
SO MY NAME IS JACK GROUCHO'S.
WE CURRENTLY LIVE IN BROOKLYN
TO A UNION STREET BUT OBVIOUSLY
OUR HOME WILL BE AT FIVE FIFTY
THREE S FIRST STREET AND MY
WIFE LEAH.
SO AS I SAID WE LIVE IN
BROOKLYN TODAY.
WE LIVE IN AN OLD BROWNSTONE.
I THINK THAT'S PART OF WHAT HAS
GIVEN US BOTH THE RESPECT FOR
AND LOVE FOR ALL THIS WORK THE
BUILDINGS AND HAS MADE SO
ATTRACTED TO AND EXCITED ABOUT
POTENTIALLY LIVING IN THE OLD
WEST SIDE.
WE HAVE HAD A GROWING FAMILY.
WE HAVE THREE YEAR OLD BOY AND
A ONE YEAR OLD BOY AND THAT'S
PART OF THE REASON WHY WE'VE
BEEN THINKING ABOUT LEAVING NEW
YORK.
WE HAVE FAMILY HERE, BOTH OF MY
WIFE'S SIDE AND MY SIDE.
SO BEING IN A NEIGHBORHOOD LIKE
THE OLD WEST SIDE AND BEING
CLOSER TO FAMILY IS VERY
APPEALING TO US AS WELL AS THE
ABILITY TO KIND OF KEEP SOME
OF THE HISTORIC FEATURES OF OUR
HOME THAT WE SO ENJOY TODAY.
SO AS YOU CAN SEE IN THE PLANS,
THERE'S OBVIOUSLY A BUNCH
OF SOME SMALLER AND THAT ON THE
TIER HERE SOME LARGER CHANGES
WE'RE PLANNING TO TRY AND YOU
KNOW, HELP THE HOUSE
ACCOMMODATE OUR FAMILY BUT YOU
KNOW, WITH WITH MICHAEL AND
ALEX, WE'VE TRIED TO BE VERY
THOUGHTFUL ABOUT HOW WE'VE
ADDRESSED THOSE CHANGES AND
MAKE SURE THAT IT RESPECTS THE
HISTORIC NATURE OF THE HOUSE,
THE HISTORIC NATURE OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD BECAUSE AGAIN
THAT'S PART OF WHAT'S APPEALING
TO US AND WE WANT TO BE BOTH
RESPECTFUL OF THAT AND MAINTAIN
IT.
SO YOU KNOW, WE'RE OBVIOUSLY
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS,
BUT IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU GUYS
HAVE ALSO SPENT TIME THINKING
ABOUT IT AND WE APPRECIATE YOUR
TIME TONIGHT IN YOUR TIME AT
THE SITE VISIT.
BUT IF THERE'S ANYTHING WE CAN
ADDRESS, WE'RE OBVIOUSLY HAPPY
TO DO SO DO WE HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANTS SO
NOT LIKE YOU CAN SIT DOWN UNTIL
OTHER THINGS COME UP IF THEY
DO, I'D NOW LIKE TO OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION AT FIVE FIVE THREE
S FIRST STREET PUBLIC COMMENT
MAY BE MADE IN PERSON OR BY
CALLING EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
OR TWO ONE THREE THREE THREE
EIGHT EIGHT FOUR SEVEN SEVEN
AND ENTERING MEETING EDINA'S
NINE SEVEN EIGHT SIX FOUR ZERO
FOUR FIVE ONE FIVE.
>> THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
DISPLAYED ON THE MEETING AGENDA
AND VIDEO FEED IN ORDER TO
ELECTRONICALLY RAISE YOUR HAND
AFTER DIALING INTO THE MEETING
PLEASE PRESS NINE ON YOUR PHONE
.
IS THERE ANYBODY NO KNOW.
SO WE'LL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND ASK COMMISSIONER TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THIS ITEM.
>> I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT 553 S FIRST
STREET, A CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
IN THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT A FIFTY
TWO SQUARE FOOT REAR EDITION
WITH A BALCONY ON TOP REPLACE
THE DOOR TO THE BALCONY, INFILL
ONE OF TWO FRONT DOORS AND
REPLACE THE REMAINING DOOR.
REMOVE AN ATTIC EXHAUST FAN IN
THE REAR GABAL AND REPLACE WITH
A CIRCULAR WINDOW INFILL A
SECOND FLOOR REAR WINDOW AND
INSTALL A NEW WINDOW NEARBY
INFILL A BASEMENT WINDOW ONTO
THE FRONT PORCH, INSTALL A
BACKYARD PATIO AND CONSTRUCT
TWO NEW ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AS
PROPOSED THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE
AN EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND IT MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO FIVE, SIX, NINE
AND TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE EDITION ROOFS AND
WINDOWS AS WELL AS THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES IN PARTICULAR THE
GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS DOORS
,LIGHTING AND RESIDENTIAL
ACCESSORIES STRUCTURES SECOND
USED BY COMMISSIONER HEFLIN AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER SMITH.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
OK THEN WE ARE READY FOR A VOTE
.
>> ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY YES
YES YES.
>> ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
OK, YOUR MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST
RECEIVE ALL REQUIRED PERMITS
FROM THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING
YOUR PROJECT AND THAT THE WORK
IN THE PERMITS MUST MATCH WHAT
WAS APPROVED BY THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION.
>> THANK YOU.
OK OK YOU DON'T HAVE TO STAY IN
BUSINESS MEETING YOU.
IT'S AN OPEN MEETING.
YOU'RE WELCOME TO BUT WE WILL
NOW MOVE ON TO ITEM ONE THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES REVIEW MRS
THATCHER THAT WENT SO QUICKLY
THAT I'M NOT READY.
YEAH, YEAH.
SOMETIMES THEY CAN BE USING
YEAH WELL A GOOD APPLICATION
MAKES IT EASY ABSOLUTE.
OK, SO NOW WE'RE GOING TO MOVE
ON TO DESIGN GUIDELINES LAST
MONTH I INTRODUCED SHOULD I
OPEN THE WRONG ONE HERE.
YOU'RE WELCOME
.
LAST MONTH WE INTRODUCED THE
INTRODUCTION AND GAVE YOU
COPIES OF IT TO EDIT AND I'VE
JUST OPENED THE WRONG CHAPTER.
SO LET ME GET BACK IN HERE AND
TRY THIS AGAIN TONIGHT WE'RE
GOING TO GO THROUGH THAT
INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER AND SEE
WHAT COMMENTS YOU GUYS HAVE
MADE AND SEE IF YOU HAVE ANY
MORE TO ADD.
THIS IS A QUICK THIS IS A SHORT
CHAPTER SO I DON'T THINK IT'LL
BE TOO PAINFUL.
SO I'VE MARIJANA
AND I HAVE
HEARD THAT THE WONKY FORMATTING
GETS WORSE WHEN YOU OPEN IT IN
THE WEB VIEWER VERSION OF WORD
LIKE WHEN I OPEN IT OPENS IN
REAL WORD SO I APOLOGIZE FOR
THAT IF THAT'S SOMETHING THAT
YOU ABSOLUTELY CAN'T WORK
AROUND LET ME KNOW.
BUT IF POSSIBLE WE'D REALLY
LIKE TO AVOID SPENDING HOURS
OF STAFF TIME FORMATTING
SOMETHING THAT WE'RE GOING TO
CHANGE AGAIN.
BUT I IF IF IT'S JUST A PAIN IN
THE REAR WE WANT TO KNOW ABOUT
IT.
BUT DON'T YOU THE REAL WORD AS
WELL ABOUT FORMATTING ISSUES
THERE THEY'RE FINE IF YOU HAVE
ANY PROBLEM WITH IT.
YEAH, THE ONLY THING I WAS
WORRIED WAS I DIDN'T KNOW
BECAUSE I'M TECHNOLOGICALLY
CRIPPLED IF THE CHANGES I WAS
READING I MOVED TO PHOTOGRAPH I
MOVED THE PLACEHOLDER FOR THE
PHOTOGRAPH TO READ THE BLOCK
OF TEXT BEHIND IT.
I AND I DIDN'T KNOW IF I WAS
MAKING PERMANENT REVISIONS OR
SUGGESTED REVISIONS TO THE TEXT
ELSEWHERE SO I WAS LIKE OH I
HOPE I DIDN'T SCREW IT UP
EVERYBODY YOU KNOW I THINK IT'S
FINE.
>> THE PROBLEM WAS THE WHOLE
DOCUMENT IS IN DESIGN AND SO WE
HAD TO TRANSLATE IT INTO WORDS
SO EVERYTHING GOT MESSED UP.
WE'RE MISSING PHOTOS, THINGS
GOT SHIFTED AROUND ALL THE
FONTS GOT CHANGED.
SO ONCE WE GET THROUGH THE
SUBSTANCE OF THE REVISIONS, YOU
KNOW, THE ACTUAL WORDS THEN
WE'LL PROBABLY HAVE SOMEBODY
ELSE COME IN AND WE'LL PROVIDE
NEW PICTURES AND AND CAPTIONS
AND THINGS LIKE THAT AND THEY
CAN DO A BETTER JOB OF MAKING
SOMETHING MORE COMPATIBLE WITH
WORDS THAT THE NEXT TIME WE GO
THROUGH THIS WE DON'T HAVE TO
REFORMAT IT YET AGAIN.
BUT LET ME SHARE MY SCREEN HERE
AND
JUST A SEC.
I MAKE THIS BIGGER KIND OF A
LOT GOING ON OK?
IS THAT BIG ENOUGH?
SO CAN YOU READ THAT OK?
YEP.
OK OK SO I'M GOING TO PAUSE ON
ALL OF THESE THINGS FOR
COMMISSIONERS TO THINK ABOUT TO
SEE IF YOU HAVE ANY ADDITIONAL
FEEDBACK ON IN THIS FIRST
CHAPTER PLEASE THINK ABOUT
PLACES WHERE THE IMAGES SHOULD
BE UPDATED AND CAPTIONS SHOULD
BE CHANGED.
>> SO I'VE ALREADY FLAGGED A
FEW THAT WHERE THE BUILDINGS
HAVE CHANGED OR THEY'RE JUST
NOT THE BEST PHOTOS.
BUT IF YOU HAVE THOUGHTS AS
WE'RE GOING THROUGH THIS, LET
ME KNOW IF YOU'RE LIKE YEAH,
THAT DOESN'T REALLY ADD
ANYTHING TO THE CONVERSATION OR
IT'S PRETTY BUT WHATEVER WE CAN
WE CAN TALK ABOUT THOSE UM DAVE
ROCHLIN SAYS THERE ARE SO MANY
INTERESTING PHOTOS OF ANTAEUS
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IT WOULD BE
GREAT TO USE SOME OF THEM.
I PREFER TO SEE THEM MUCH
BIGGER THAN THE THUMBNAIL SIZES
AND HAVE SOME OF THE BEST
HISTORIC PHOTOS WITH A MODERN
PHOTO OF THE SAME LOCATION
WOULD ACTUALLY BE REALLY COOL.
>> YEAH, I WONDER DO YOU WANT
TO OPEN IT UP TO PEOPLE THE THE
OLD FOURTH WARD PEOPLE CLEARLY
WOULD HAVE FEELINGS ABOUT WHICH
PICTURES WOULD BE GOOD TO SHOOT
AND OLD WEST SIDE MAY ALSO BE I
DON'T KNOW IF YOU WANT TO OPEN
THAT CAN OF WORMS.
UM I DON'T I DON'T KNOW I THINK
TO GET A WIDE RANGE
OF DIFFERENT STYLES
OF BUILDINGS I DON'T WANT TO
ASK PEOPLE FOR PHOTOGRAPHS AND
THEN NOT USE THEM AND HAVE THEM
FEEL BAD FOR HAVING THE TIME TO
PROVIDE THEM.
UM BUT IS THIS AN INTERESTING
IDEA
?
>> WELL, I'M GLAD THAT YOU USED
A PENCIL SKETCH OF RAY'S FRONT
PORCH AS OPPOSED TO THE CURRENT
REALITY BECAUSE THE TRUE NEEDS
EXTENSIVE REPAIR.
THE YEAH YEAH THERE ARE A FEW
PHOTOS LIKE THAT IN HERE THAT
JUST ARE OUTDATED.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO THINK ABOUT PHOTOS AS WE
MOVE THROUGH.
I'LL HAVE TO FIGURE OUT IF WE
IF WE NEED IF WE SHOULD KEEP
THE ORIGINAL AUTHORS ON HERE
FOR AN UPDATE.
WE DON'T DO THAT.
I JUST DON'T KNOW THE AWER.
YOU CAN WAIT AND SEE HOW MUCH
IT CHANGES.
YEAH.
UH, LET'S SEE YOU CAN SEE WHERE
MARIANNA AND I HAVE JUST
UPDATED STUFF SHE WENT THROUGH
AND CHECKED ALL THE LINKS.
IT'S STILL A PAIN TO HAVE A
WEBSITE THIS LOG ON HERE BUT
IT'S KIND OF THE ONLY WAY TO DO
IT.
AND IF THEY'RE LOOKING AT A PDF
DOCUMENT IT'LL BE A HYPERLINK.
YEAH, THERE WERE AT LEAST ONE
PLACE I'M ASSUMING IN THE TEXT
ANY TIME THERE'S A REFERENCE TO
AN EXTERNAL SOURCE WE WILL
INCLUDE A LINK.
YES.
LIKE IT SAID SOMETHING ABOUT
THE TIBBLE DEFINITION
OF CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURES.
>> YES.
YES, ABSOLUTELY.
MS.
BUT I'M STILL GOING TO PUT
ALAWI'S RUNNING ME AROUND OK?
ADD LINKS FOR ALL EXTERNAL
REFERENCES AND HYPERLINKS FROM
A LOT OF THEM MORE OUTDATED
WHICH IS NOT SURPRISING SINCE
THIS IS FROM 2012.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON SHOULD BE VERIFIED
JUST IN CASE AS WELL.
>> PARDON.
YOU SAY ADD AND VERIFY HAD
LINKS IN CASE.
YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH.
>> THE ONES THAT MARRA HAS
ALREADY CHANGED ARE VERIFIED
BUT YEAH AND WE'LL BE HERE TO
DO THAT ALSO AT THE VERY END
JUST BEFORE IT GETS PUBLISHED I
SAY WILL CHANGE.
YES THEY MAY CHANGE YES
.
ALL RIGHT UH THE GOOD NEWS IS
THE CURRENT PAGE NUMBERING IS
NOT LIKE THIS IT'S LIKE SECTION
ONE DASH ONE PAGE ONE DASH
THREE AND YOU CAN'T JUMP TO ANY
PAGES SO IT'LL BE A MODERN
FORMAT AND YOU'LL BE ABLE TO
CLICK ON OH WHAT I WANT IS THIS
CHAPTER SIX IT'LL JUMP YOU TO
IT SO THAT'LL BE NICE
.
THIS IS A NEW INTRODUCTION ARE
A LOT OF THIS INTRODUCTION IS
NEW AND MARIANA WROTE MOST
OF IT OH MY GOD, DON'T DO THAT.
>> IT
WE WANTED TO HAVE IT
SOUND MORE CURRENT AND I THINK
THAT IN 2012 WE WERE THINKING
ABOUT DIFFERENT ISSUES RELATED
PRESERVATION THAN WE ARE IN
2024 AND IT'S NOT JUST ABOUT
KEEPING THINGS FROM CHANGING
AND AND YOU KNOW, MAINTAINING
OUR PROPERTY VALUES NOW IT'S
ALSO ABOUT HOW CAN THESE
PROPERTIES CHANGE AND STILL
MEET THE STANDARDS AND WHAT IT
IS AND HOW CAN WE BE GREEN?
HOW CAN WE DO USING THE
BACKYARD LIKE THAT LAST
APPLICANT AND HOW CAN WE MAYBE
GET MORE MORE DWELLING UNITS
INTO HISTORIC DISTRICTS
HISTORIC DISTRICTS ARE ACTUALLY
REALLY GOOD AT INCREASING
DENSITY, ESPECIALLY THE OLD
FOURTH WARD BECAUSE SO MANY
OF THOSE BIG HOUSES HAVE BEEN
CHOPPED INTO SO MANY BEDROOMS
AND SO MANY APARTMENTS THAT I
REALLY DO WANT TO DO A DENSITY
MAP OF THE DIFFERENT
NEIGHBORHOODS BECAUSE I'M
PRETTY SURE THE OLD FOURTH WARD
IS IS THE MOST DENSITY IN THE
CITY.
YEAH, WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF LIKE WHERE AN EIGHTEEN
STOREY TOWER SITS, YOU KNOW
IT'S HARD TO COMPETE WITH THAT
BUT THEY'VE HAD SOME
SUGGESTIONS IMPROVEMENTS LIKE
OR CEILING INSULATING AND
ADDING SOLAR PANELS CAN BE
THOUGHTFULLY INCORPORATED TO
REDUCE CARBON EMISSIONS.
I THINK THAT'S A GOOD ONE.
YOU WANTED TO REPLACE
SKYSCRAPERS WITH MID RISE OR
HIGH RISE WHICH DEFINITELY WE
DON'T TALK ABOUT SKYSCRAPERS IN
ANN ARBOR CHIPSETS PRIMARILY
THOUGH NOT EXCLUSIVE.
THE OAK AND THE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS PRIMARILY THOUGH NOT
EXCLUSIVELY COMPRISED BUILDINGS
BETWEEN ONE AND FOUR UNITS.
YES, THAT'S A GOOD ONE AND OK,
WE GOT AHEAD OF OURSELVES SO
NOW WE TALK ABOUT THE
COMMISSION TAX CREDITS.
THIS WILL ALL BE UPDATED
BECAUSE THE TAX CREDIT PROGRAM
TWELVE YEARS AGO OH GOOD.
>> ONE OF MY THING WAS WE
MENTIONED PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE AND CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS WITHOUT
DEFINING.
>> YES.
SO YES, THAT MADE ME THINK
THOUGH THAT WE NEVER AND MAYBE
THIS HAS BEEN ADDED I HAVEN'T
BEEN ABLE TO GET TO IT THE
DEFINITION OF WHAT A HISTORIC
DISTRICT IS AND HOW IT COMES TO
BE WAS NOT IN THERE.
YEAH, AND THAT'S WHERE I
THOUGHT WELL YOU COULD
CERTAINLY COVER PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE IN THAT
DESCRIPTION.
YES.
AND THAT WOULD BE THE PLACE
WHERE INSTEAD OF GOING INTO
DETAIL ABOUT TWO THIRDS OF THE
OWNERS AND BLAH BLAH BLAH YOU
COULD LINK TO THE PARK SERVICE
OR WHEREVER THAT APPROPRIATE.
>> YES, DETAIL IS BUT WE NEVER
SAY THIS ALL HAS TO DO WITH
HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND THIS IS
WHAT A HISTORIC DISTRICT IS TO
BE TO NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
DEFINITION OF PERIOD.
YEAH.
WHAT'S IT LOOK LIKE?
IT GOT IT GOT ADDED IN THERE
BUT AND CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS WHERE THE TO
THE OH I'M SORRY FENCELINE
ARMENTA RIGHT
.
OBVIOUSLY I'M HOPING THAT
YOU'LL JUST STOP ME IF I'M
RUNNING OVER SOMETHING THAT YOU
WANTED TO TALK ABOUT MORE.
OK HERE'S OUR NEW DEFINITION
OF PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE AND
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES.
>> I WAS JUST DID YOU IN THE
TAX CREDIT THING IT'S SOMETHING
THAT SAYS AS OF THIS WRITING
THESE ARE THE TAX CREDITS
AVAILABLE.
THESE CHANGE OVER TIME.
>> CHECK THIS LINK.
YEAH, THAT'S A GOOD POINT.
OR YOU KNOW, DO YOU WANT TO
CHANGE IT WHEN THAT CHANGES?
YES.
YEAH.
THAT'S GOOD
.
OK, OK APPLICABILITY OF THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES I KNOW DAVE
HAD SOME ADDITIONAL ITEMS THAT
HE WANTED TO ADD HERE
ALTERATION OF GARAGE EDITION
OF A NEW EGRESSED WELL EDITION
OF NEW MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT SO
THINGS LIKE SOLAR PANELS, SOLAR
PANELS, YOU KNOW THE SORT GREEN
INITIATIVE STUFF.
>> YEAH
.
SO THIS WAS JUST A BASIC LIST
THAT WE STARTED OUT WITH.
I DON'T KNOW IF WE REALLY WANT
TO INCLUDE EVERYTHING THERE.
I MEAN WE COULD MAKE THIS THE
FORTY FIVE MOST COMMON ITEMS
BROUGHT TO THE HTC NOW ARE
THERE ANY THAT THESE ARE THE
REALLY OBVIOUS ONES I THINK
YEAH.
I THINK IT'S IT'S GOOD TO
INCLUDE THINGS THAT PEOPLE
MIGHT NOT THINK WERE THINGS
THEY HAD TO GET APPROVAL FOR
LIKE SOLAR PANELS.
AND I ALSO THINK THAT EGRESS
WINDOWS IN THE BASEMENT LOOK
OUT FOR THAT REPLACEMENT
WINDOWS AND DOORS EXTERIOR
WORK.
BELIEVE IT OR NOT, I HAVE TO
TELL PEOPLE THAT
OK, THERE'S
NOT MUCH ON THIS PAGE
WHO USES
THE DESIGN GUIDELINES, HOW THEY
WORK WITH OTHER REGULATIONS
AND
HOW TO USE THESE DESIGN
GUIDELINES
.
>> THIS IS JUST A LITTLE MATRIX
OF WHAT HAPPENS, WHAT YOU HAVE
TO FOLLOW WHEN YOU DO WORK.
I'M NOT SURE HOW HELPFUL THIS
IS BUT I DON'T SEE NO REASON TO
TAKE IT OUT IN CASE IT HELPS
SOMEBODY.
WOULD IT BE HELPFUL TO INCLUDE
AT THE BEGINNING OF THE HOW TO
USE THESE GUIDELINES TO INCLUDE
SOMETHING THAT TOOK THEM TO THE
LINK THAT TALKED ABOUT THE
PROCESS AND WHERE YOU GET YOUR
APPLICATION AND YES.
AND I DON'T THINK THAT SHOULD
BE A LINK BUT I THINK WE SHOULD
DESCRIBE HOW TO GET TO THERE.
OK, THOSE THOSE THOSE THINGS DO
CHANGE KIND REGULARLY.
YES.
WHAT AM I GONNA GO
.
ALL RIGHT.
I ADD A COMMENT OK DUH UM
DESCRIBE HOW TO GET TO
VERY
GOOD AND THAT'S IT.
SO ANY OTHER QUESTIONS ANY
OTHER COMMENTS MORE IMPORTANTLY
WHAT WILL HAPPEN WITH THESE NOW
IS NEXT WEEK I'LL GO THROUGH
AND COMPILE EVERYTHING THAT
EVERYONE HAS SAID AND STILL
TRACK THE CHANGES IN THE
DOCUMENT AND MAKE AVAILABLE
SORT OF A FINAL DRAFT VERSION.
OK, GOOD.
IF WE THINK OF THINGS, YOU
KNOW, FOUR MONTHS FROM NOW THAT
OUGHT TO GO IN THE
INTRODUCTION.
WE CAN JUST ADD THEM IN AND
THEN YOU GUYS WANT TO SEE THAT
SORT OF FINAL DRAFT VERSION
LIKE NEXT MONTH OR DO YOU WANT
TO WAIT UNTIL WE'VE GONE
THROUGH EVERYTHING AND THEN SEE
A FINAL DRAFT COMPLETE DOCUMENT
THIS NEXT MONTH SO IT'S MORE
DIGESTIBLE AND WILL IT BE
HAVING NOT BEEN ABLE TO GET
THROUGH AND HAVE SHAREPOINT?
>> YEAH.
YEAH.
WILL IT BE WHEN WE'RE REVIEWING
YOU KNOW, CHAPTER TWO WILL
CHAPTER ONE AND INTRO BE
AVAILABLE TO US OR NOT?
THEY WILL OK WE WILL STILL BE
AT THE SAME LINKS AND I WE WILL
HOPEFULLY CAN SEND OUT THE NEW
CHAPTER AND THEN SEND OUT ALSO
THE OLD CHAPTER WITH ITS EDITS
EDITOR CHAPTER SO YOU COULD
LOOK AT BOTH.
YEAH AND I'M THINKING ABOUT
LOOKING AT SOMETHING THINKING
OH WAIT DID WE EVER TALK ABOUT
THAT?
>> NO.
YOU KNOW GO BACK AND MAKE SURE
THINGS ARE CONSISTENT.
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
I WILL NEED TO KEEP THE
CHAPTERS DISTINCT BUT THAT'S
THAT'S A GOOD POINT AND I WILL
ADD THAT TO THE COMMENTS HERE
.
I ALSO WANT TO FIND OUT IF
THERE'S JUST A BETTER WAY TO DO
THIS BECAUSE IT SEEMS LIKE
EVERYONE HAS HAD PROBLEMS OF A
DIFFERENT NATURE INTO THIS
DOCUMENT AND EDITING IT.
THEY'RE ALL THEY'RE ALL UNIQUE
.
IT'S JUST THE SCARY THING WHEN
YOU'RE YOU KNOW, USING GOING
THROUGH SHAREPOINT AND HAVE
TRACK CHANGES ON AND IT'S JUST
NOT EVER GOING TO SHOW UP CLEAN
EVEN IF YOU'RE IN WORD RIGHT.
>> YOU KNOW, YOU JUST HAVE TO
DO THE BEST WE CAN AND YEAH.
>> YEAH BUT I WILL TALK TO SOME
MORE PEOPLE AND SEE IF THERE'S
YOU KNOW, A DROPBOX THAT WE CAN
ALL ACCESS OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT THAT MIGHT BE A LITTLE
MORE STRAIGHTFORWARD.
WE'LL SEE.
I'LL LET YOU KNOW ANYTHING ELSE
THIS INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER
OK,
YOU CAN ALWAYS GIVE ME MORE
COMMENTS LATER AND NEXT UP IS
THE NEXT THE NEXT ASSIGNMENT IS
CHAPTER ONE.
MARIANA SENT THAT OUT A DAY OR
TWO AGO AND SAME DRILL IF YOU
CAN GO THROUGH AHEAD OF TIME
MAKE COMMENTS GREAT.
WE WILL ALSO GO THROUGH TO THE
MEETING JUST LIKE WE DID TODAY
AND ONWARD AND UPWARD.
SO WHAT YOU'RE SAYING IS WE
SHOULD BRING LOTS OF COMMENTS
SO WHEN SHE GETS BACK FROM
AUSTRALIA BEGINNING IN DECEMBER
THERE'S JUST A MILLION THINGS
IN OUR INBOX.
>> WELL, I'M DOING THIS MONTH
SO MAYBE SHE WILL GO NEXT
MONTH.
YEAH, THAT'S OK.
SAGAT IS IT FOR THEM.
>> OK, MOVING ON TO REPORT
OF NOMINATING COMMITTEE
COMMISSIONER ROSS OH OK.
>> I'M SO IF I THE REPORT IS
BUT IS IT SOUNDS LIKE MR
CALDERON HAS ACCEPTED OR WOULD
LIKE TO THROW HIS HAT IN THE
RING FOR
SECRETARY AS WELL AS
FOR THE VICE CHAIR COMMISSIONER
REPORTER FOR THE TWO DENHA OK
SO WITH THAT FOLLOWING SLATE
OF CANDIDATES IS THERE ANY
DISCUSSION AND YOU BETTER BE
READY TO VOLUNTEER.
>> THANK YOU FOR DOING IT.
>> WE'RE OK.
SO WE NEED TO MOVE ON TO A VOTE
ALL IN FAVOR OF THIS SLATE
OF CANDIDATES A YES YES YES
DROSSOS SAY NO MOTION CARRIES.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, OFFICER SHOULD HAVE
JUST CHECKED YOUR EMAIL
EARLIER.
BENTLER THANK YOU.
BYE.
BEFORE I SAW THAT ONE OH
DEFLECT.
OK, WE WILL MOVE ON TO H1
APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES.
WERE THEY ATTACHED?
DIDN'T AND DIDN'T HAVE MINUTES
ATTACHED?
I SENT A LINK IT SAID THERE
WERE BUT THERE WAS NO LINK.
DID ANYBODY ELSE GET MINUTES
FOR OCTOBER THE OCTOBER MINUTES
I DID NOTICE THE QUESTION OK IF
YOU CAN'T GET TO THE HARD COPY
YEAH.
>> I MEAN IF YOU WANT TO LOOK
AT IT DIDN'T THERE WAS NO LINK
DIDN'T WORK.
YEAH OK I GUESS THEN THAT THERE
ARE NO MINUTES FOR THIS MONTH
AND WE WILL ADD THOSE MINUTES
TO NEXT MONTH'S AGENDA.
OK MOVING ON TO ITEM I WANT ANY
COMMISSIONER TO MAKE A REPORT
MOVING ON TO J1 ASSIGNMENT'S
FOR THE NEXT REVIEW COMMITTEE
WHICH WILL BE MONDAY, DECEMBER
9TH FOR THE THURSDAY DECEMBER
12TH MEETING
.
I THINK I CAN DO A SECOND.
OK,
THEN WE HAVE MYSELF AND
STEVE.
>> STEVE, YOU CAN DO IT GREAT.
THANK YOU.
>> SO ITEM K ANY REPORTS FROM
YOUR STAFF?
>> NO IMPORTS FROM CHEF.
OH I GUESS I SHOULD UPDATE YOU
ON THE FOURTH WORD SURVEY THE
CONSULTANT SENT SOMEWHAT
BACKING UP A LITTLE BIT FURTHER
MARYANNA I WENT OUT AND WALKED
A BUNCH OF THE OLD FOURTH WARD
AND FOUND THAT A LOT OF THE
INFORMATION WAS INCORRECT AS I
SUSPECTED THE PEOPLE WHO WROTE
UP THE SURVEY FORMS LOOKED AT
THE PHOTOGRAPHS THAT HAD BEEN
TAKEN RATHER THAN THE NOTES
BEING TAKEN AS THEY WALKED THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> SO A OF IT WAS JUST WRONG,
YOU KNOW, MATERIALS WRONG
WINDOW STYLES AND TYPES WRONG.
AND THE CONSULTANT WHO THE
PROJECT MANAGER WHO JOINED
MIDSTREAM OF THIS PROJECT WAS
WAS HORRIFIED AND SENT SOMEBODY
OUT TO RE WALK AND REDO ALL THE
SURVEY CARDS AND THEY'RE
WORKING ON THAT RIGHT NOW.
THEY'RE GOING TO MAKE IT RIGHT.
THEY GOT THEIR MONEY.
THAT'S IT FROM STAFF.
OK, WELL CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS, ANYBODY WITH
CONCERNS I DON'T THINK THERE'S
ANY OH, COMMUNICATIONS.
NO NO COMMUNICATIONS.
OK, THAT CASE I ADJOURN THIS
MEETING AT SEVEN FIFTY FOUR
WHICH MIGHT BE A RECORD I WAS
GOING TO SAY WE SHOULD STAGE A
COUP.
YOU'D NEED TO BE THIS BRADDICK